Akaroa Ñ Banks Peninsula, New Zealand

Just 85 kilometers from the city of Christchurch, New Zealand, Akaroa is an historic french and British settlement nestled in the hart of an ancient volcano.

Explore the village with its colonial architecture, craft stores, and cafes. Relax in the sun at French Bay, or find a secluded beach of your own in one of the neighbouring bays. Head out onto the harbour, where scenic, fishing, and wildlife encounter cruises are available.
Whether for the weekend or the week, there's an akaroa Escape to suit your mood.


Wild Akaroa

Escape the crowds and get in touch with nature.
The volcanic crater provides a rich environment for birds and marine life, and is itself a spectacular backdrop. Experience the dramatic scenery of the harbour mouth with a harbour cruise, and watch for Hector's dolphins, which often play alongside the boats.
The world's smallest, Hector's dolphins grow to a maximum length of 1.4 metres and weigh less than 50 kilograms. The population of this species is esitimated at only 3000, but the new Banks Peninsula Marine Mammal Sanctuary has been created to safeguard the remaining numbers. Yellow-eyed and little blue penguins (also the world's smallest) and New Zealand fur seals are also commonly seen in the Harbour.
Take in the broad sweep of the crater rim and the deep void of the harbour from the Summit Road behind Akaroa.
A series of 32 small reserves are scatter over the peninsula, protecting important ecological areas. Some of these are easy to explore on foot, while others are best viewed from the road.


Romantic Akaroa

Relax! Unwind on the golf course, or linger over a cappuccino in a harbourside cafe. Explore the peninsula by car and visit the local craftspeople, the gardens, and the wineries, or stop off at a secluded bay. From Daly's Wharf, watch the sun set across the harbour, or detour into the side streets and take in the colonial architecture


Uncover the layers of history in this, Canterbury's oldest settlement.
Claimed by the British at Green Point just days before the French colonists arrived in 1840, the town has always borne a twin cultural heritage. The narrow-gauge roads are are lined with colonial cottages, and the historic buildings of the main street are still occupied by local businesses. Time is well spent simply walking around Akaroa's back streets. Guide yourself along the Historic Walk.



Historic Akaroa

Whaling station and sawmill sites from the early years of European colonisation dot the bays of the penninsula, as do Maori pa sites. Today the Ngai Tahu iwi (tribe) maintains a presence on the peninsula at Onuku, just south of Akaroa. Perhaps the most significant pa site, and certainly one of the most significant, is Onawe, in the heart of the harbor. Read about its dramatic history at the Akaroa Museum.



Getting there

The village of Akaroa is located inside a long harbour on Banks Peninsula, 83 kilometres from the city of Christchurch, New Zealand by State Highway 75.
Public transport is availiable from Christchurch, and rental cars are available for hire. From Christchurch's Cathedral Square, take Colombo Street south and turn right onto St Asaph Street. At Hagley Park, turn left onto Hagley Avenue, and follow it south-west as it becomes SH75. Follow the highway through Halswell, Tai Tapu, and Little River, over Hilltop, and down to Akaroa (allow 1½ hours travelling time).

Text Source: http://www.akaroa.com